QuickDiagram is a system developed by a team led by Dr. Liu Wenyin (www.cs.cityu.edu.hk/~liuwy)  for quick input and understanding of circuit diagrams by sketching. With a user sketching a (complete or partial) component/symbol or wire (connecting two symbols) of the diagram, the system can recognize and beautify it immediately. After the entire diagram is complete, certain understandings can be obtained. The system has a symbol database with more than 600 circuit devices/symbols. Three steps of stroke processing, filtration, and on-line recognition are used to recognize a circuit symbol even before it is completely sketched. The following two methods are used to interpret the recognized diagram: 1) circuit simulation on resistive circuits based on the Nodal Analysis, and 2) generation of PSpice codes from the recognized diagrams. Experiments on a few sketched circuit diagrams show that the results are robust and accurate for both recognition and understanding. This system is still in its preliminary stage and we call for open source contributors to collaboratively and gradually make the system mature for practical usage. Anyone who is interested in downloading and contributing the project is welcome to contact with the project leader Dr. LIU Wenyin at liuwenyin@gmail.com. Thanks for your potential interest and contribution.

The system has been developed using the methods published in the following papers. You are suggested to select appropriate papers to cite if you wish to use our code.
  1. Liu Wenyin, Xiangfei Kong, Yiming Wang, Chester Wan, Cheuk-Yin Ho, Tong Lu and Zhengxing Sun, “QuickDiagram: A System for Online Sketching and Understanding of Diagrams”, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 2010, Volume 6020 (Graphics Recognition. Achievements, Challenges, and Evolution), pp. 130-141, DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-13728-0\_12
  1. Wan Zhang, Liu Wenyin, and Kun Zhang, “Symbol Recognition with Kernel Density Matching”, IEEE Trans. on PAMI, Vol. 28, No. 12, pp. 2020-2024, Dec. 2006
  1. Peng Binbin, Liu Wenyin, Yin Liu, Guanglin Huang, Zhengxing SUN, Xiangyu Jin, “An SVM-based Incremental Learning Algorithm for Automatic User Adaptation of Sketching Recognition”, Int. J. of Pattern Recognition and Artificial Intelligence (IJPRAI), vol. 18, No. 8, pp. 1529-1550, 2004.
  1. Xu Xiaogang, Sun Zhengxing, Peng Binbin, Jin Xiangyu, Liu Wenyin, “An Online Composite Graphics Recognition Approach Based on Matching of Spatial Relation Graphs”, International Journal on Document Analysis and Recognition (IJDAR), Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 44-55, 2004.
  1. Jing Zhang, Liu Wenyin, “A Pixel-level Statistical Structural Descriptor for Shape Measure and Recognition”, ICDAR2009
  1. Y. Yu, Wang Zhang, Liu Wenyin, “A New Syntactic Approach to Graphic Symbol Recognition”, ICDAR2007, pp. 516-520.
  1. Wan Zhang, Liu Wenyin, “A New Vectorial Signature for Quick Symbol Indexing, Filtering and Recognition”, ICDAR 2007, pp.516-520.
  1. Binbin Peng, Liu Yin, Liu Wenyin, Guanglin Huang, “Sketch Recognition Based on Topological Spatial Relationship”, Proc. SSPR 2004 (LNCS 3138), pp.434-443, Lisbon, Portugal, August 18-20, 2004.
  1. Luo Yan, Guanglin Huang, Liu Yin, and Liu Wenyin, “A Novel Constraint-Based Approach to Online Graphics Recognition”, Proc. SSPR 2004 (LNCS 3138), pp. 104-113, Lisbon, Portugal, August 18-20, 2004.
  1. Xiaogang Xu, Liu Wenyin, Xiangyu Jin and Zhengxing Sun, “Sketch-based User Interface for Creative Tasks”, Proc. APCHI2002 (5th Asia Pacific Conference on Computer Human Interaction), Nov., 2002, Beijing, pp. 560-570.
  1. Xiangyu Jin, Liu Wenyin, Sun Jianyong, Zhengxing Sun, “On-line Graphics Recognition”, Proc. of 10th Pacific Conference on Computer Graphics and Applications (PG'02--Pacific Graphics 2002), Beijing, pp. 256-264. (regular paper).
  1. Liu Wenyin, Wenjie Qian, Rong Xiao, “Smart Sketchpad—An On-line Graphics Recognition System”, Proc.  ICDAR2001, pp.1050-1054, Seattle, September, 2001.
  1. Guanglin Huang, Wan Zhang, and Liu Wenyin, “A Discriminative Representation for Symbolic Image Similarity Evaluation”, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Volume 5046 (Graphics Recognition: Recent Advances and New Opportunities, Selected and revised papers from Proc. 7th International Workshop, GREC 2007, Curitiba, Brazil, September 2007), W. Liu, J. Lladós, and J.-M. Ogier (Eds.), pp. 71–79, 2008.
  1. Feng Min, Wan Zhang, and Liu Wenyin, “Symbol Recognition Using Bipartite Transformation Distance and Angular Distribution Alignment”, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 3926 (Graphics Recognition: Ten Year Review and Perspectives and Perspectives, eds., Liu Wenyin and Josep Lladós, selected and revised papers from Proc. The 6th International Workshop on Graphics Recognition, GREC 2005, Hong Kong, August 2005), Springer, 2006, pp. 408-417.
  1. Sun Zhengxing, Liu Wenyin, Peng Binbin, Zhang Bin, Sun Jianyong, “User Adaptation for On-line Sketchy Shape Recognition System”, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 3088 (Graphics Recognition: Recent Advances and Perspectives, eds. J. Lladós, Y.B. Kwon, Selected and revised papers from Proc. of GREC2003, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain July 30-31, 2003), Springer, 2004, pp. 303-314 (substantially revised version of the GREC2003 paper).
  1. Liu Wenyin, Xiangyu Jin, Zhengxing Sun, “Sketch-Based User Interface for Inputting Graphic Objects on Small Screen Device”, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 2390 (Graphics Recognition: Algorithms and Applications, Selected and revised papers from Proc. of GREC2001, September 7~8, 2001, Kingston, Canada), Springer, 2002, pp. 67-80.

The system is committed as an open source project at http://code.google.com/p/quickdiagram/.